Title: Charrettes
imagehero: /images/banners/Charrettes_banner.jpg.cropped.png



# Charrettes

A charrette is an intensive planning process that brings together community
members and design professionals to create collaborative solutions for
cities, towns, and neighborhoods. On the day of the charrette, design
professionals solicit input from all attendees to produce sketches of dream
neighborhoods and landscapes: more trees here, a new park there, better
sidewalks and areas that promote mixed use. 

The Community Design Center is committed to the charrette process as the
antidote to the conventional, top-down planning practices that usually
generate controversy and delay. We can help you build public trust and
support for transformative community change!

At the end of the process, you will have a Vision Plan for your community
that you can take to government and foundation funders when you apply for
construction grants to transform your environment.  Communities in and around
Rochester have raised millions of dollars for construction projects by
submitting Vision Plans created with the Design Center.  How it works

The CDCR and its team of volunteer design professionals will help you
organize, plan, and facilitate your community design charrette.

* We use nationally recognized charrette techniques that will generate high
quality results for your community.
* We invite you to use our Design Center Studio Space for planning and organizing meetings.
* After the charrette, we produce drawings and reports to help communities bring their visions for their neighborhood, town, or city to reality.  We are ready to help you plan your charrette.

The first step is to form a steering committee of interested stakeholders. We
will work with your committee to define the geographic focus areas and
schedule. The planning process for a charrette can take six to eight months,
but we will be with you every step of the way to plan an event that will
unite your community in a shared vision.
