Title: Vision Plans
imagehero: images/banners/VisionPlan_banner.jpg.cropped.png


# Vision Plan Examples
<em><b>Please note: These select Vision Plans can be viewed online, but at a 
reduced quality and without supplemental inserts. To purchase these or other 
Vision Plans in their high-quality entirety please contact the Design 
Center.</b></em><br />

<em>You are welcome to come by the Design Center and look at hard copies of any
of our publications!</em><br />

### Joseph Avenue Business Association: Business District Vision Plan - September
2013<br />
In collaboration with the Joseph Avenue Business Association (JABA), the 
Community Design Center has prepared this community-based Vision Plan for the 
Joseph Avenue Business District. The Business District boundaries extend from 
Wilkins Street on the south to Pardee Street on the north. This document 
reflects the ideas that the community has for the revitalization and 
enhancement of the corridor.<br />
The Vision Plan incorporates ideas and goals suggested at the community design 
visioning session held on April 15, 2013 at the Lincoln Library on Joseph 
Avenue. The participants, guided by design professionals, produced both written
and visual concepts for the corridor. A summarization of these suggestions can 
be found in the Visioning Session Results section of this report. The resulting
plans integrate these ideas as well as principles of good design and planning 
that will contribute to a healthy, safe, and economically viable commercial 
corridor. The Joseph Avenue Business Association: Business District Vision Plan
document contains plans, maps, drawings and other images to illustrate the 
design and development recommendations for the corridor. The ideas generated at
the community design charrette workshop were used to develop guiding principles
for the final plan.<br />


### Town of Lima: 15A Corridor Community Vision Plan - July 2013<br />
In collaboration with the Lima Steering Committee, CDCR prepared this 
community-based Vision Plan for the Route 15A corridor between the village and
town line. This document reflects the ideas that the community has for the 
revitalization and enhancement of the corridor.<br />

The Vision Plan incorporates ideas and goals suggested at the community design 
charrette workshop held on January 19th, 2013 at the Lima Town Hall. The 
participants, guided by design professionals, produced both written and visual 
concepts for the corridor. A summarization of these suggestions can be found in
the Charrette Results section of this report. The resulting plans integrate 
these ideas as well as principles of good design and planning that will 
contribute to a healthy, safe, and economically viable rural corridor.<br />

The Town of Lima: 15A Corridor Vision Plan document contains plans, maps, 
drawings and other images to illustrate the design and development 
recommendations for the corridor. The ideas generated at the community design 
charrette workshop were used to develop guiding principles for the final 
plan.<br />

### Corn Hill Community Vision Plan - August 2012<br /> 
IA community-based “Vision Plan” for the Corn Hill neighborhood was prepared by
the CDCR in collaboration with the Corn Hill Neighborhood Charrette Steering 
Committee. The pages reflect the goals and ideas of community members for 
revitalization and enhancement of their neighborhood, the commercial district 
and the underdeveloped and underutilized areas surrounding the district, 
including the riverfront.<br />

This Vision Plan incorporates ideas suggested by community members via 
community dialogue and the September 24, 2011 Corn Hill Neighborhood Community 
Design Charrette. There is strong community support for the enhancement of the 
public realm and the creation of a well-connected, pedestrian-friendly 
community.<br /> 

### Rochester, NY "A Vision for the Future", a Community-Based Vision Plan for 
Downtown Rochester - May 2008<br />
In January 2007, the CDCR coordinated and facilitated a three-day professional 
design charrette for Center City Rochester which was held at Midtown Plaza in 
downtown Rochester. The charrette built on previous work including the 2000 
Rochester Downtown Design Charrette, the 2004 Center City Master plan, and work
done by the Urban Land Institute in 2005. The purpose was: 1) to generate ideas
for the development of strategic sites in 5 geographic focus areas in the 
downtown, 2) to identify guiding principles as a design approach to 
revitalization of the built environment in the downtown, 3) to create a Center 
City Vision Plan to help guide future projects in the downtown, 4) to create an
environment for economic rejuvenation and sustainable development in the 
downtown. Partners and participants included the Rochester Downtown Development
Corporation (RDDC); AIA Rochester Chapter; representative from the city and 
county; 138 local design professionals; resource teams made up of community 
leaders and stakeholders; and citizens who were invited to share their ideas. 
During the course of the year following, five design teams and approximately 55
design professionals, worked to refine plans and design schemes for sites in 
their focus areas. The CDCR team worked on the overall issues related to items 
like circulation, connectivity, public realm improvements and green space and 
assembled this report document, "Rochester, NY, A Vision for the Future." It is
intended that the report and drawings produced serve as a basis for and are 
integrated into a strategic plan to be taken forward.<br />



### Susan B Anthony Neighborhood Community Vision Plan - October 2008<br />
A community-based Vision Plan for the Susan B. Anthony neighborhood was 
prepared by the CDCR, in collaboration with the Susan B. Anthony Neighborhood 
Steering Committee, in order to provide written and visual urban design plans 
that reflect the goals and ideas of community members for revitalization of 
their neighborhood, the commercial district and the underdeveloped and 
underutilized areas surrounding the district. This Vision Plan incorporates 
ideas suggested by approximately 60 community members who attended the Susan B.
Anthony Neighborhood Community Design Charrette, held on June 9, 2007, and 
expresses these ideas as elements of good design and planning for healthy 
viable communities. The process of creating the plan began in 2006 when the 
neighborhood association began working toward the charrette with the CDCR. 
Post-Charrette work to create a Vision Plan began in the spring of2008 and 
proceeded through the fall. The Vision Plan features overlays on base plans, 
each including recommendations for design and development strategies for areas 
within the Susan B. Anthony Neighborhood Charrette area. The Vision Plan also 
includes detailed drawings which show how the implemented scheme would look and
feel from a userâs perspective. The primary recommendations in the plan are 
based on guiding design concepts which were expressed as important by community
members at the charrette.<br />

### Marketview Heights/ North Union Street Corridor Community Vision Plan - 
July 2008<br />

In collaboration with the Marketview Heights Steering Committee, comprised of 
residents from the Marketview Heights neighborhood, Rural Opportunities, Inc., 
and Housing Opportunities, Inc., the CDCR prepared this community-based vision 
plan for the North Union Street Corridor from East Main Street to Central Park.
The document serves to provide a written and visual urban design vision 
reflecting the goals and ideas of community members for revitalization of their
neighborhood and the corridor.<br />

This report incorporates ideas suggested by nearly 40 residents and 
stakeholders at the Marketview Heights Mini-Charrette held at Dr. Freddie 
Thomas Learning Center in October 2007. The document expresses these ideas as 
elements of good design and planning to create a healthy, viable community, and
as inspiration for the corridor’s future development. The mini-charrette was 
proposed as the first phase of implementing the Marketview Heights Neighborhood
Revitalization Strategy which was completed in February 2006. The formal 
planning process for the mimi-charrette event began in April 2007 and involved 
a steering committee comprised of diverse neighborhood stakeholders from the 
Marketview Heights Collective Action Project. Following the mini-charrette, the
process of creating a vision for the North Union Street Corridor was carried 
out during late 2007 and early 2008.<br />
 






